[ADD] localization: belgian accounting (#3442)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/fiscal_localizations/belgium.rst

:abbr:`PCMN(Plan Comptable Minimum Normalisé)`. To add a new account, click :guilabel:`New`. A new
line appears. Fill it in, :guilabel:`Save` and click :guilabel:`Setup` to configure it further.

.. seealso::
   - Odoo Tutorial: `Chart of accounts <https://www.odoo.com/slides/slide/chart-of-accounts-1630?fullscreen=1>`_.
   - Odoo Tutorial: `Update your Chart of accounts tutorial <https://www.odoo.com/slides/slide/update-your-chart-of-accounts-1658?fullscreen=1>`_.

Taxes
=====

Default Belgian taxes are created automatically when the :guilabel:`Belgium - Accounting` and
the :guilabel:`Belgium - Accounting Reports` modules are installed. Each tax impacts the Belgian
:guilabel:`Tax Report`, available by going to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Reporting -->
Statements Reports: Tax Report`.

In Belgium, the standard rate is **21%**, but there are lower rates for some categories of goods
and services. A rate of **12%** is applied on social housing and food served in restaurants, while a
rate of **6%** applies to most basic goods, such as food, water supply, books, and medicine. A
**0%** rate is available on some daily and weekly publications, as well as recycled goods.

.. seealso::

>    :doc:`../accounting/reporting/tax_returns`.

Reviewer: I agree, it should be at the end of the taxes section. As to why there's a link, I think taxes and tax return go together

them to the corresponding accounts. This way, the system automatically calculates the taxes and
allocates them to the appropriate accounts.

To configure a new non-deductible tax, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration -->
Accounting: Taxes`, and click :guilabel:`New`. :guilabel:`Add a line` and set as :guilabel:`Base` in
the :guilabel:`Based On` column, :guilabel:`Add a line` with the **non-deductible** percentage in
the :guilabel:`%` column, set :guilabel:`of tax` in the :guilabel:`Based On` column, and select the
:guilabel:`Tax Grid(s)` related to your tax. Finally, :guilabel:`Add a line` with the **deductible**
percentage in the :guilabel:`%` column, set :guilabel:`of tax` in :guilabel:`Based On`, select
:guilabel:`411000 VAT recoverable` as account, and select the related tax grid.

.. note::
   Make sure to repeat the same steps for the :guilabel:`Distribution for invoices` section and the
   :guilabel:`Distribution for refunds` section.
.. seealso::
  :doc:`Taxes <../accounting/taxes>`.

Once you have created the non-deductible tax, you can apply it to your transactions by selecting the

> appropriate tax during the creation of invoices or bills. The system automatically calculates

Reviewer: You're right, it's actually irrelevant for invoices we issue, only the ones that the company occurs

the tax amount and allocates it to the corresponding accounts based on the tax rules configured.

.. note::
   With the Belgian localization, the **21% car** tax is created by default (50% non-deductible).

Accounting reports
==================

> Here is the list of Belgian-specific reports available on Odoo Enterprise:

Reviewer: I added instructions on how to use the BE version of reports, I'm not sure about detailing though? I don't know what else is there to say about these reports

- Balance sheet;
- Profit & loss;
- Tax report;
- Partner VAT Listing;
- Intrastat.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../accounting/reporting`.

Fee form 281.50 and form 325
============================

Fee form 281.50
---------------

Annually, individual :guilabel:`Fee form 281.50` must be reported to the fiscal authorities.

The tag :guilabel:`281.50` must be added on the :guilabel:`Contact form` (res.partner) of the
supplier you want to generate a 281.50 report to. To do so, go to the :guilabel:`Contacts` app,
select the supplier you want to create a :guilabel:`Fee form 281.50` for, and add the
:guilabel:`281.50` tag in the :guilabel:`Tags` field.

.. image:: belgium/281-50.png
   :align: center
   :alt: add the tag 281-50 on a contact form

Then, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Acounting: Chart of Accounts`, and
click on :guilabel:`Setup` to add the corresponding :guilabel:`281.50` tag on the impacted accounts,

> ie.: :guilabel:`281.50 - Commissions`, depending on the nature of the expense.

Reviewer 2: (Oh I see there is a similar sentence at line 160, but it's better written.)

Form 325
--------

You can create :guilabel:`Form 325` by going to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Reporting -->
Belgium: Create 325 form`. A new page pops up: select the right options and click
:guilabel:`Generate 325 Form`.

.. image:: belgium/create-325-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: add the tag 281-50 on a contact form

Go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Reporting --> Belgium: Open 325 forms` to view the
:guilabel:`325 forms` you already generated.

Disallowed expenses report
==========================

> **Disallowed expenses** are expenses that can be deducted from your bookkeeping result but not from

Reviewer: Changed

   * - :guilabel:`Belgium - Payroll`
     - `l10n_be_hr_payroll`
     - Installing this module grants you access to the basic payroll features for Belgium.
   * - :guilabel:`Belgium - Payroll with Accounting`
     - `l10n_be_hr_payroll_account`
     - Installing this module enables the integration of accounting data with payroll.
   * - :guilabel:`Belgium - Payroll - Dimona`
     - `l10n_be_hr_payroll_dimona`
     - Installing this module grants you access to Dimona features for payroll.
   * - :guilabel:`Belgium - Payroll - Fleet`
     - `l10n_be_hr_payroll_fleet`
     - Installing this module grants you access to fleet features for payroll.
   * - :guilabel:`Salary Configurator (Belgium)`
     - `l10n_be_hr_contract_salary`
     -  Installing this module grants you access to the salary configurator feature.

Chart of accounts
=================

You can reach the :guilabel:`Chart of accounts` by going to :menuselection:`Accounting -->
Configuration --> Accounting: Chart of Accounts`.

The Belgian :guilabel:`Chart of accounts` includes pre-configured accounts as described in the
:abbr:`PCMN(Plan Comptable Minimum Normalisé)`. To add a new account, click :guilabel:`New`. A new

> line appears. Fill it in, :guilabel:`Save` and click :guilabel:`Setup` to configure it further.

Reviewer 2: no need for a guilabel
```suggestion
The Belgian chart of accounts includes pre-configured accounts as described in the :abbr:`PCMN(Plan
Comptable Minimum Normalisé)`. To add a new account, click :guilabel:`New`. A new line appears. Fill
it in, click :guilabel:`Save`, and then :guilabel:`Setup` to configure it further.
```

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../accounting/get_started/chart_of_accounts`

Taxes
=====

Default Belgian taxes are created automatically when the :guilabel:`Belgium - Accounting` and
the :guilabel:`Belgium - Accounting Reports` modules are installed. Each tax impacts the Belgian
:guilabel:`Tax Report`, available by going to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Reporting -->
Statements Reports: Tax Report`.

In Belgium, the standard rate is **21%**, but there are lower rates for some categories of goods
and services. A rate of **12%** is applied on social housing and food served in restaurants, while a
rate of **6%** applies to most basic goods, such as food, water supply, books, and medicine. A

> **0%** rate is available on some daily and weekly publications, as well as recycled goods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Belgium, the standard VAT rate is **21%**, but there are lower rates for some categories of goods
and services. An intermediate rate of **12%** is applied on social housing and food served in
restaurants, while a reduced rate of **6%** applies to most basic goods, such as food, water supply,
books, and medicine. A **0%** rate applies to some exceptional goods and services, such as some
daily and weekly publications, as well as recycled goods.
```

The :guilabel:`vehicle split` option available in the :guilabel:`Disallowed Expenses Report` allows
you to see the rate and disallowed amount for each car.

.. image:: belgium/vehicle-split.png
   :alt: Disallowed expenses categories

Fee form 281.50 and form 325
============================

Fee form 281.50
---------------

Annually, a **281.50 fee form** must be reported to the fiscal authorities. To do so, the tag
`281.50` must be added on the **contact form** of the entities concerned by the **281.50** fee. To
add the tag, go to the **Contacts** app, select the person or company you want to create a **281.50
fee form** for, and add the `281.50` tag in the :guilabel:`Tags` field.

.. image:: belgium/281-50.png
   :alt: add the tag 281.50 on a contact form

.. note::
   Make sure the **street, zip code, country**, and **VAT number** are also informed on the
   **Contact form**.

Then, depending on the nature of the expense, add the corresponding `281.50` tag on the impact
accounts. To do so, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Accounting: Chart of
Accounts`, and click on :guilabel:`Setup` to add the corresponding `281.50` tag on the impacted

> accounts, ie.: :guilabel:`281.50 - Commissions`, depending on the nature of the expense.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
accounts, i.e., :guilabel:`281.50 - Commissions`, depending on the nature of the expense.
```

   :alt: Add the tag 281-50 on a contact form

CODA and SODA statements
========================

CODA
----

**CODA** is an electronic XML format used to import Belgian bank statements. You can download CODA
files from your bank and import them directly into Odoo by clicking :guilabel:`Import Statement`
from your :guilabel:`Bank` journal on your dashboard.

.. image:: belgium/coda-import.png
   :alt: Import CODA files

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Belgium - Import Bank CODA Statements` module is installed by default when the
   :guilabel:`Belgium - Accounting` and the :guilabel:`Belgium - Accounting Reports` modules are
   installed.

.. seealso::
   :ref:`Import bank statements files <transactions/import>`

SODA
----

**SODA** is an electronic XML format used to import accounting entries related to salaries. SODA
files can be imported in the journal you use to record salaries by going to your Accounting
**dashboard** and clicking :guilabel:`Upload` in the related journal card form.

Once your **SODA** files are imported, the entries are created automatically in your 'salary'
journal.

.. image:: belgium/soda-import.png
   :alt: Import SODA files

Electronic invoicing

> ====================

Reviewer 2: This point also changes in a later version (I don't remember which) as the edi formats are then defined on the contact form and not in the journal anymore.
